Time for call to action, isn't it?
Time for me to have my signup form.
So you can download the slides and
you don't need to sign up
to anything to do this.
Go download the slides at
subscribe.boagworld.com/findclients.
If you wanna sign up for my newsletter as
well, you know exactly what you're gonna
get by this stage [LAUGH] of things but
that's entirely up to you.
The slides have got all of
the information we've talked about,
they've got links in it.
And I really wanna emphasize that at any
stage even if you're watching this four
five years from now, if you've got
a question, drop me an email, my email
address is in the slide so every question
there's a link to my email address.
I'm more than happy to answer questions
because I know how much anxiety
finding clients and
keeping work coming in can be.
And to be honest, I've had moments
in my life where it's really damaged
my mental health and I don't wanna
see anybody else in that position and
if I can help, I honestly will.
Talking of questions, we got any
final questions before we wrap up for
today, I would love to deal with
them now if you've got them.
>> Are there any thoughts whether
freelancers should do their
website on a domain named after
themselves or after their own company?
>> Yeah, I'm probably the worst person
in the world to ask this question from.
Yeah, inadvertently I've managed to
build a brand name on Boagworld.
How egotistical does that sound, right?
How did that happen?
That was such a mess up.
It was supposed to be just a personal
site and it kind of escalated and
before I knew it, now it's my brand name.
Well, here's the thing,
it depends on your aspirations.
If you intend to build an agency one day,
if you tend to take on multiple employees
then you might wanna consider
one that's not around your name.
The one thing that you should definitely,
definitely not do is to pretend to
be something you're not, right?
And what do I mean by that?
I despise with a passion freelancers
who use the word we, right?
When it's just one person, okay?
There is this perception that to
attract big clients you need to be
a big agency and
that is complete BS, right?
I work with UNICEF,
I work with European Commission,
I work with PUMA, I work with Shell,
all of these massive companies and
it's just me on my tod, all right?
That has nothing to do with it.
If you are a single person,
an independent freelancer or
consultant just like I am,
be honest, there's no shame in that,
in fact there's a lot of
benefits to being that, okay?
For a start, one of the things that
companies hate is they hire an agency and
they end up with the billy staff, right?
When they hire you, they get you and
that's a great selling point.
Whether or not that domain name is your
name or not, that doesn't really matter,
that's a toss up whatever you fancy.
I think if you're intending maybe
to one day grow into an agency,
it's probably better to avoid it.
But on the other hand, it's quite nice,
it's quite personal if it's your own name.
So I haven't really
answered the question but
hopefully there's a few
thoughts in there worth having.
Any others come out?
>> Do you ever find that
maybe getting work or
having a job disrupts the process
of making a survey or a report or
extrapolating out of those
to get your content?
>> Yeah.
>> How do you manage those?
>> That's a really good question cuz yes,
it would.
Yeah, it does.
So it's a tricky one because there
are certain things that you can leave gaps
between and
there's certain things you can't.
Once you've first reached
out to your audience,
that cold list,
you have to move relatively quickly to
delivering the report because
otherwise they go cold, right?
So your first email needs to go out
then maybe two weeks later, the survey
needs to go out and then maybe a month
later, the report needs to be there.
So in that period of time, you really
need to pick a period where you know
you're gonna be free and
gonna be able to do this, right?
So that might be that you book it out
from client work which I know is really
hard to turn away.
Maybe it's you take a holiday for
that length of time,
maybe it's you pick a time where you
know it's gonna be nothing much goes on,
whatever, but
that bit you can't really split up.
Everything else really can be fitted
around normal client work cuz after
that you're talking about guest posts,
you're talking about interviews,
these are just one of little
things that can be done whenever.
And you can grow your list at
whatever speed you can afford to do.
The only thing that
obviously needs to be set
is your email to go out every fortnight or
every month, wherever is possible.
So it's just that first bit that really
you can't let client work get in
the way of, which I haven't
found a way around that yet but
it is a weakness because
I know that's hard to do.
>> Have you thought about
doing outsourcing because you
are outsourcing by using these
tools that you have in a sense.
>> Yeah.
>> Have you thought about actually having
a list of other freelancers that
you reach out to do some of your,
could be even just maintaining these
things that you do like tracking,
analyzing your surveys and-.
>> Yeah, there's quite a lot of
opportunities if you wanted to go down
that route.
I'm a bit of a control freak and
also I'm fortunate that I've got
enough space in my business
to be able to do it myself.
For a start, all that boring
research at the beginning of
making the list of companies and
influencers and
all that kind of stuff, I have been
known to get my wife to do that.
She kind of volunteered [LAUGH], so
I guess I outsourced that a little bit,
that's a great one, anybody could do that,
you could get student doing that.
Equally getting email addresses and
all that kind of stuff.
Any contact with the client I wouldn't
outsource or people in the list so
your emails, your newsletters,
all that kind of stuff.
Landing page,
you could outsource that if you wanted to.
If you're not a good designer
it makes sense to do that.
Your kind of analytics,
maybe you could do that.
Social media updates, getting someone
to take content from your report and
turn it in social media updates,
you can outsource that.
So yeah, absolutely,
if you wanna go down that route.
I just think it depends on how much cash
you've got to do that kind of thing.
A lot of freelancers are a bit
tight on their cash flow and so
don't really wanna do that but
an agency certainly could.
So yeah, it's an option.
Any more questions from chat or
should we call it a day?
>> Any advice to younger freelancers or
advice you would give yourself
earlier in your career?
>> [LAUGH] Yeah,
I get asked this question all the time.
And I was kinda talking about
this earlier because I'm actually
the worst person to ask that question of
cuz I started in my career in 1994, right?
So any experiences that I learned then
are definitely not relevant today.
Unlike anything I know now, I'm so
skewed by all my years of experience and
my well established business at
the moment that actually my advice for
a freelancer probably isn't particularly
useful for a young freelancer.
I will give the same advice that I gave
earlier, I think it was in a break or
over lunch which is that,
if you are just starting out, right?
Maybe you've just done a boot camp or
you're very early on in your career.
My advice is not to jump
straight into freelancing, right?
My advice is first of all, spend even
just a year working for an agency and
see how they do things even if
they're a terrible agency, right?
You will learn loads about
how not to do it and
you'll get exposed to these kinds of
soft skills and the kind of stuff
that you don't think about when
you set up a freelance business.
You just think, well, I can build a
website so I can run a freelance business.
Yeah, but can you sell yourself?
Can you deal with clients?
Can you do project management?
Can you do finances, right?
That took me by surprise [LAUGH].
How complicated that was when I went by
myself cuz when I ran an agency I had
a partner that dealt with all of that and
so that came as a real shock to me.
So take a bit of time in an agency
before jumping into freelance,
that's really the only advice I can give.
I guess another piece of
advice I'd give myself is,
don't spend too much time
learning the latest framework or
the latest design tool or
the latest whatever,
they come and go really fast, right?
What doesn't change is people.
People are always the same.
So spend your time,
I'm not saying don't learn the technology,
of course you've gotta learn technology
and Frontend Masters is an excellent
source of advice on all the technology
you could ever want to learn.
But in addition to learning that stuff,
don't forget to learn the soft skills,
don't forget to learn how
to deal with clients,
how to build relationships with
colleagues, all of those things.
Those are the things that last and
don't change.
Technology will come and go.
So yeah, just bear that in mind.
>> I feel like sharing my own experience.
>> Go for it, yeah, do it.
>> [INAUDIBLE] this.
In the early stages, I always worked for
pennies on the dollar
just to get experience.
>> Yeah.
>> And so I did a ton of websites for
cheap under selling myself.
However when I did get a full time
job again, I was underpaid but
I did learn a lot at an agency
building a lot of things.
>> Yeah.
>> And
then to take the leap what I did was,
I got a 20-hour week contract.
>> Yeah.
>> That would essentially cover my
living expenses.
>> Yeah.
>> And then from there I would try to get
the high paying work which I eventually
replaced that 20 hours a week with.
>> Yeah.
>> Once that was up and
I had more work flowing then I was
continually kind of like climbing
that ladder of increasing my rate,
getting better and
better projects and
no longer under selling myself.
But it took a lot of work in the early
stages to get the reputation and
the skills to be able to manage even at
kind of a lower where we were getting
paid $10 an hour or peanuts or whatever.
>> Yeah.
>> For a long time but anyways.
>> That idea of of taking
a 20-hour contract, so
don't jump into freelancing with both
feet overnight cuz that's terrifying.
But actually to do it more gradually
I think it's excellent advice,
totally agree with that.
I think on those words of wisdom
from Mark, we should finish simply.
Thank very much for watching this course.
Hope you found it useful and good luck
with your future career and direction.
>> [APPLAUSE]